README.md, before:

# The mentorHub Platform

mentorHub is a cloud platform that supports our operations, and serves the needs of staff, members, mentors, partners, and donors. This platform is here to give apprentices real-world experience working in a modern cloud computing environment, and exposure to a full design-build-run SDLC with QA controls, and CI/CD Automations. [This is a list of all mentorHub repositories.](https://github.com/orgs/agile-learning-institute/repositories?q=mentorhub&type=all&sort=name)

## Contributing to the platform

### Prerequisites

- Familiarize yourself with the [Product Roadmap](./specifications/ROADMAP.md) to understand release plans
- Review the [Architecture Principles](./specifications/PRINCIPLES.md) to understand guiding principles for the architecture
- Review the [Architecture Diagrams](./specifications/ARCHITECTURE.md) to understand the architecture
- Review the [CI/CD](./specifications/CICD.md) Configurations to understand how code is deployed
- Install [mentorHub Developer Edition](./mentorHub-developer-edition/README.md) to run the system or any portion of it locally.

### Software Engineer Workflow

- Check the [mentorHub Project](https://github.com/orgs/agile-learning-institute/projects/3/views/2) for a Kanban of issues.
- Select an issue that is **On Deck** and move it to **Active** to start your work.
- If you need clarification about the issue, leave a comment on the issue with your question.
- If someone is already assigned to the issue, check with them on how to contribute.
- Assign the issue to yourself.
- Create a branch in the repository, name the branch with a -issueNN suffix
- Create a draft PR to ask for reviews or guidance
- After you have fully tested your changes, change the PR from draft to open and ask for reviews.
- Once your changes have been merged back into the main branch the code is deployed to Dev.
- At this time you should be able to conduct preliminary end to end testing.
- When you are satisfied that the work is ready for integration testing, move the issue from **Active** to **Done**

### Software Quality Workflow

- Check the [mentorHub Project](https://github.com/orgs/agile-learning-institute/projects/3/views/2) for a Kanban of issues.
- Select an issue that is in **Done** and move it to **Testing** to start your work.
- Do your Cypress/Postman tests in the Testing Environment
- Assign the issue to yourself.
- Document defects found as comments on the issue. One defect per comment.
- Add a checkbox to the issue description for fixing the defect.
- When testing is complete if:
  - known defects remain, move the issue from **Testing** back to **Active**
  - no known defects, move the issue from **Testing** to **Complete**

### What if I have a new idea

- From the mentorHub project, create an draft issue for your idea.
  - Include all the details and repositories that will be impacted.
  - Start off by creating a Hill statement to capture the meaningful outcome
  - [Who] does [What] and then [Wow].
  - Who is the user of the system, use an existing persona or RBAC role
  - What is the action they take in the system to initiate the Wow (click...)
  - Wow is the meaningful outcome. It answeres the question "Why are we doing this"
- When you are satisfied that your idea is captured, ask for a review of the issue.
- Once the issue is approved it will be placed either in the **Backlog** or the **On Deck** list.

## Before Creating new repositories

It is very unlikely that you will need to create a new repository, but if you should be lucky enough to start something from scratch, all mentorHub repositories should be created in the agile-learning-institute organization, follow mentorHub naming standards outlined below, be *public*, allow the *mentorHub* team to have *maintainer* access, and use one of the following templates:

- [x] [template-vanilla](https://github.com/agile-learning-institute/template-vanilla) a minimal repository with no language specific code.
- [ ] [template-api-go-gorilla-mongodb](https://github.com/agile-learning-institute/template-api-go-gorilla-mongodb) - Golang / Mongo API
- [ ] [template-api-ts-express-mongodb](https://github.com/agile-learning-institute/template-api-ts-express-mongodb) - Typescript / Mongo API
- [ ] [template-api-py-flask-mongodb](https://github.com/agile-learning-institute/) - Python / Mongo API
- [ ] [template-ui-vue-vuetify-axios](https://github.com/agile-learning-institute/) - Vuejs SPA
- [ ] [template-ui-react-?-axios](https://github.com/agile-learning-institute/) - React SPA
- [ ] [template-ui-angular-?-?](https://github.com/agile-learning-institute/) - Angular SPA
- [ ] [template-mongodb](https://github.com/agile-learning-institute/) - MongoDB schema versioning template
- [ ] [template-sqldb](https://github.com/agile-learning-institute/) - SQL schema versioning template

NOTE: If your desired template is not available (not checked off) then you can use the vanilla template, and you should consider creating a new template after you get your code to a functional state.

All mentorHub repositories should follow this naming convention ```mentorHub-[service]-[element]``` where service is a service boundary name such as profile, partner, search, subject, etc. and element is one of ```ui | api```. for example ```mentorHub-profile-ui``` would contain a Single Page Web App, that uses the ```mentorHub-profile-api``` api. All of the Mongo data structures and test data can be found in [```mentorHub-mongodb```](https://github.com/agile-learning-institute/mentorHub-mongodb). Also note that these names are technology agnostic, but the code deployed within a project should be a specific implementation. i.e. mentorHub-search-api could be in any language, but should be implemented in only one.

Commit message:

README updates for creating new repositories

README.md, after:

# The mentorHub Platform

mentorHub is a cloud platform that supports our operations, and serves the needs of staff, members, mentors, partners, and donors. This platform is here to give apprentices real-world experience working in a modern cloud computing environment, and exposure to a full design-build-run SDLC with QA controls, and CI/CD Automations. [This is a list of all mentorHub repositories.](https://github.com/orgs/agile-learning-institute/repositories?q=mentorhub&type=all&sort=name)

## Contributing to the platform

### Prerequisites

- Familiarize yourself with the [Product Roadmap](./specifications/ROADMAP.md) to understand release plans
- Review the [Architecture Principles](./specifications/PRINCIPLES.md) to understand guiding principles for the architecture
- Review the [Architecture Diagrams](./specifications/ARCHITECTURE.md) to understand the architecture
- Review the [CI/CD](./specifications/CICD.md) Configurations to understand how code is deployed
- Install [mentorHub Developer Edition](./mentorHub-developer-edition/README.md) to run the system or any portion of it locally.

### Software Engineer Workflow

- Check the [mentorHub Project](https://github.com/orgs/agile-learning-institute/projects/3/views/2) for a Kanban of issues.
- Select an issue that is **On Deck** and move it to **Active** to start your work.
- If you need clarification about the issue, leave a comment on the issue with your question.
- If someone is already assigned to the issue, check with them on how to contribute.
- Assign the issue to yourself.
- Create a branch in the repository, name the branch with a -issueNN suffix
- Create a draft PR to ask for reviews or guidance
- After you have fully tested your changes, change the PR from draft to open and ask for reviews.
- Once your changes have been merged back into the main branch the code is deployed to Dev.
- At this time you should be able to conduct preliminary end to end testing.
- When you are satisfied that the work is ready for integration testing, move the issue from **Active** to **Done**

### Software Quality Workflow

- Check the [mentorHub Project](https://github.com/orgs/agile-learning-institute/projects/3/views/2) for a Kanban of issues.
- Select an issue that is in **Done** and move it to **Testing** to start your work.
- Do your Cypress/Postman tests in the Testing Environment
- Assign the issue to yourself.
- Document defects found as comments on the issue. One defect per comment.
- Add a checkbox to the issue description for fixing the defect.
- When testing is complete if:
  - known defects remain, move the issue from **Testing** back to **Active**
  - no known defects, move the issue from **Testing** to **Complete**

### What if I have a new idea

- From the mentorHub project, create an draft issue for your idea.
  - Include all the details and repositories that will be impacted.
  - Start off by creating a Hill statement to capture the meaningful outcome
  - [Who] does [What] and then [Wow].
  - Who is the user of the system, use an existing persona or RBAC role
  - What is the action they take in the system to initiate the Wow (click...)
  - Wow is the meaningful outcome. It answeres the question "Why are we doing this"
- When you are satisfied that your idea is captured, ask for a review of the issue.
- Once the issue is approved it will be placed either in the **Backlog** or the **On Deck** list.

## Before Creating new repositories

It is very unlikely that you will need to create a new repository, but if you should be lucky enough to start something from scratch use one of the templates below.

> When viewing the template on GitHub select **Use this template**, then select **Create a new repository**. Make sure you set the repository **Owner** to "agile-learning-institute", name it as described below, and make it **public**.
---
> After the repository has been created, open **Settings** and make the following changes:
>
> - Under Collaborators and Teams, add the **mentorHub** team with **Maintain** access, and the **mentorAdmins** team with **Admin** access
> - Under Branches click **Add a branch protection rule**, set the **Branch name pattern** to *main*, check **Require a pull request before merging** and then scroll down and click **Create**.

### Templates

- [x] [template-vanilla](https://github.com/agile-learning-institute/template-vanilla) a minimal repository with no language specific code.
- [ ] [template-api-go-gorilla-mongodb](https://github.com/agile-learning-institute/template-api-go-gorilla-mongodb) - Golang / Mongo API
- [ ] [template-api-ts-express-mongodb](https://github.com/agile-learning-institute/template-api-ts-express-mongodb) - Typescript / Mongo API
- [ ] [template-api-py-flask-mongodb](https://github.com/agile-learning-institute/) - Python / Mongo API
- [ ] [template-ui-vue-vuetify-axios](https://github.com/agile-learning-institute/) - Vuejs SPA
- [ ] [template-ui-react-?-axios](https://github.com/agile-learning-institute/) - React SPA
- [ ] [template-ui-angular-?-?](https://github.com/agile-learning-institute/) - Angular SPA
- [ ] [template-mongodb](https://github.com/agile-learning-institute/) - MongoDB schema versioning template
- [ ] [template-sqldb](https://github.com/agile-learning-institute/) - SQL schema versioning template

NOTE: If your desired template is not available (not checked off) then you can use the vanilla template, and you should consider creating a new template after you get your code to a functional state.

### Naming Standards

All mentorHub repositories should follow this naming convention ```mentorHub-[service]-[element]``` where service is a service boundary name such as profile, partner, search, subject, etc. and element is one of ```ui | api```. for example ```mentorHub-profile-ui``` would contain a Single Page Web App, that uses the ```mentorHub-profile-api``` api. All of the Mongo data structures and test data can be found in [```mentorHub-mongodb```](https://github.com/agile-learning-institute/mentorHub-mongodb). Also note that these names are technology agnostic, but the code deployed within a project should be a specific implementation. i.e. mentorHub-search-api could be in any language, but should be implemented in only one.
